There are several sources or causes of data inaccuracy.
At first it can be something as simple as entering the
wrong value or making a typo when initially entering data
into the system.
Over time, data values which started out accurately
can become inaccurate.
For example, let's say a facility uses Medline
for small purchases.
They don't order often from this company,
but with enough frequency to keep them in the vendor file.
After three years,
the vendor has changed their payment address.
If the inventory manager does not update this information
in a timely manner, then there can be delays
in getting payment to Medline.
This damages our relationship with this vendor
and can create a myriad of other problems as well.
Additionally, data movement can be another result
of data inaccuracy.
This can happen when data moves through an unreliable
database system.
For example, if gloves were not properly received
into the inventory system, it may show that you have
zero on hand, but there are really 50 cases on site.
As a result of this inaccuracy, you will run into
the negative and never really know what quantities
you have on hand without inspecting and adjusting
the inventory.